(OROCHIMARU) Mitsuki...
Mitsuki... Mitsuki...
(LOG) Mitsuki! Mitsuki!
Mitsuki!
[nervous breath]
Since you're still a child, it
may be difficult for you to
understand.
Eventually you'll realize
he's wrong!
But you need to stop Orochimaru!
Mitsuki... don't believe him- he
thinks he can deceive you
because you are a child.
Now come to me.
No!
[quivering]
Mitsuki...
Mitsuki!
Now!
[quivering]
[quivering] Since I'm only a
child...
...I don't... really care about
that either way...
As for me, I'll make my own
decisions.
[gasp]
As for me, I'll make my own
decisions.
I see... so even I'm able to
dream...
[chattering]
(BORUTO) Huh?!
You've really never had a dream
before now?
No.
Wow, you are super strange, you
know that?
So... what am I supposed to do
here?
I can't just tell you. You have
to make the choice.
You told me you wanted to eat
something for once! That's why
we're here.
Hey, can you guys hurry up and
decide? We're not getting any
younger over here ya know.
So you're having the same thing
I am?
That's right. I want what you
want.
Can you not creepy smile when
you say stuff like that?
You sure are upfront, Mitsuki.
Don't you ever feel like
rebelling a little?
Like rebelling?
Yeah! You know... like when you
just want to go against what
your parent is telling you?
Not really sure... guess not.
Hmmm...
Oh...!
Hey!
Hey! You guys are late.
Eh...? Uh...
Peep!
Inojin... on your a...
shoulder...
I'm sorry, but can we not talk
about it?
No way, you have to hear this
one. This is a classic...
Yesterday, we had a mission that
took us to a poultry farm.
[clucking]
Hmmm?
Hey, look!
Huh?
It's an egg! It might've just
been laid...
Mmmm... What do you think? An
omelet or sunny-side up?
You can't eat it!
Huh?!
Wait, what...?
Hey look... It's hatching...!
Peep!
Oh!
[crowing]
Peep, peep! Peep!
And then that little chick
totally bonded with him!
Oh what did I do to deserve
this?!
Peep!
It's imprinting.
What'd you call me?!
Imprinting's when a chick
hatches out of its egg...
and it believes that the very
first thing it sees is its
parent.
And it immediately forms a bond
with what it's seen.
It's called the "imprinting
effect."
So the first thing it sees gets
imprinted in its heart...
That's so interesting!
Doesn't that just sound so
sweet, Daddy Inojin!
Guys, give me a break, would
ya?!
[chuckle] Come on...
We're helping with security for
the Five Kage Summit today.
So eat up and let's get to work,
already!
Yeah, okay...
In all honesty, we should've
reconvened right after
Momoshiki's attack...
but it got pushed back a little.
So I apologize to all of you
for that.
The attack threw all of the
villages into chaos.
The Otsutsuki Clan issue is our
main agenda now, right?
Yeah, and considering the
importance of the topic...
we've asked the previous Kage to
join us for this discussion.
But please, let's not stand on
ceremony right now.
Shall I peel one for you?
Oh! Sure, thank you.
Hey, wait. Where's Third
Tsuchikage Ohnoki?
About that... We were still
together when we entered the
Hidden Leaf Village, but then...
When I realized...
So the legendary Ohnoki has gone
senile, has he? [laughter]
And knowing the way that Ohnoki
is...
it's entirely possible that he's
disintegrated a building or two
by now!
Well, I guess that it can't be
helped. He's probably out
sightseeing.
I'll send someone out to go
and look around for him. Can we
start without him, Kurotsuchi?
Yeah, please go on ahead.
Ugh, seriously, that damn old
geezer...!
[chattering]
[yawn]
Hey! Stay on your toes.
I know, but come on, this is
dull! We're just standing here
keeping watch.
Mitsuki, do you have any
interesting stories to share
that'll help me stay awake?
[sigh]
Well, I don't know how
interesting this is... but can I
ask you something?
Sure.
Boruto... have you ever had the
uneasy feeling that perhaps
your own thoughts...
...might not actually be your
own?
What are you talking about?!
That chick from earlier...
...thought that Inojin was its
parent.
Or maybe it's more accurate to
say it was forced to believe
that...
Like it's caught in a genjutsu
it can't break out of...
And if so, then maybe the
feeling I have of wanting to be
with you guys...
Maybe... I'm being forced to
feel that way, too...
Just a thought I had.
Okay, listen... First of all,
we're people, we aren't chicks,
right?
There's just no way you've
been "imprinted."
I see...
Yes, you're right!
What about you? You have any
interesting stories?
Hmmm... Ah! Oh, yeah...
Actually, my dad asked me this
really weird question
yesterday...
Oh, yeah? Lord Seventh did?
Yeah, he asked me if I knew what
the hardest rock in the whole
world is.
The hardest rock in the
world...?
You mean like what the Great
Stone Faces are carved out of?
No, that isn't actually what I
meant. But still...
it's like the most precious
treasure to a shinobi.
Do you have any idea what it
might be, Boruto?
Hmmm... Must be a diamond,
right?
There's no way the answer's
something that simple!
I guess not...
Aw man! Now that I remembered
his question, it's really
bugging me.
Hm?
Huh?
[chattering]
Let me see...
I wonder if something
happened...
I don't know...
I think I'll go over and ask
them.
Hey, you know... you should try
to listen to Mitsuki's troubles
a little more seriously.
But I do listen to him!
If you keep taking his concerns
so lightly, he might stop liking
you.
[chuckle] Oh, come on, that's
never gonna happen. I mean,
we're really good friends!
You know that!
I sure hope you don't
regret this one day...
It seems that this man is lost
somewhere in the village.
They want us to help with the
efforts to look for him.
Ohnoki of the Land of Earth,
huh...? Hey, wait a second!
Isn't that guy the Third Lord
Tsuchikage?!
Whoa! This is perfect timing!
Huh? What's that mean?
The Tsuchikage is from the
Hidden Stone Village, right?
Which means he's an expert
on rocks!
Don't you get it? He must know
the answer to the question...
"What's the hardest rock in the
world?"
[chattering]
So he's really over a hundred
years old...?!
Even if he's the Third
Tsuchikage...
finding a frail old man like him
shouldn't be hard at all. Right?
So you guys really don't know?!
He's Ohnoki the Fence-Sitter, a
famous hero from the Fourth
Great Ninja War.
He's able to wield the powerful
Particle Release Jutsu. It's
this super-rare Kekkei Touta.
Huh...
This old man? Really? Huh?!
Hey! Stop!
What's your problem, old man?!
Give it back!
Heh! This drawing...
...doesn't look a thing like me
at all!
Sir, are you... Ohnoki?!
And you are Boruto Uzumaki,
right?
Wait, how do you know my name?
[chuckle] I had my fair share of
looking after your father,
Naruto.
And you... are Sarada of the
Uchiha, aren't you?
Mhm!
And you must be... um...
My name's Mitsuki.
I see!
Everybody's been out looking for
you, Ohnoki, sir. The Five Kage
Summit's underway and-
[growl] So what! I don't care
one whit about that meeting!
It's so boring!
Yeah, you say that, but, uh...
Look, if you insist on trying to
take me back there...
I'll turn you all to dust with
my fearsome Particle Style and-
Ow!
Ow, that smarts...
That's the "fearsome" Particle
Style?
No way.
Particle Style's s'posed to make
whatever it touches disintegrate
at the atomic level.
My back... My poor back...
Here you go!
Aaaahhh!
Now let's get going and return
to-
Oh hey, so by the way, old
man...
Yes, what is it?
Hey! Boruto!
Do you happen to know what the
hardest rock in the entire world
is?
What? Really? You don't even
know what that is?
So you do know! C'mon, please!
Tell me what it is!
Ehhh... Well, I wonder if I
should...
Pretty please! I'll do anything
to find out!
Oh, you will? Alright, then...
Instead of taking me into
custody, if you show me around
the Hidden Leaf Village...
...then I'll consider telling
you the answer.
Really?!
Boruto...!
Yes, you should heed the request
of an old man whose days are
numbered.
If Boruto wants to, I don't
mind.
What, Mitsuki?! Not you, too!
Yes! Alright!
I'm gonna show you around this
whole place!
[chewing]
Are you sure about this? Is it
really okay to just ditch the
Five Kage Summit?
In all likelihood, they're
talking about nonsense anyway.
(DARUI) There was another one,
right...?
...who said he was Otsutsuki?
Yes. The one with the fishing
rod.
We should have a subjugation
force dispatched at once.
Sasuke's already gone after him.
It would be unwise to act with
too much haste.
But even aside from those
three...
we should assume there are
unknown others in the Otsutsuki
Clan.
Maybe we shouldn't be meeting
together like this...
just sitting around making dull
conversation...
This kind of thing is just the
reason why it's essential to
meet.
You're peeling that orange so
carefully,
I kinda have a thing about stuff
like this...
How can you remain so calm? We
could suffer another attack at
any moment!
Well, according to Sasuke's
intel...
the Otsutsuki Clan's ability to
move through dimensions requires
an enormous amount of energy.
It's safe to assume that we have
at least a little more time
before they can attack again-
How can you be so easygoing?!
Just eat the whole thing, peel
and all! It's more nutritious!
I'm very particular about
things, so...
Hey! Can we stop trivializing
the situation we're dealing
with?!
Look, what's the point of
panicking about it right now?
When you've gained as much
experience as we have...
you come to learn that you don't
have to jump at every little
thing.
Another nightmare like Kaguya's
attack is enough to make anyone
nervous, of course.
But nothing is gained by being
unsettled all the time.
No, I- Listen, I'm not being
"unsettled!"
But you- and Ohnoki, too- don't
seem to have a real sense of the
danger that we're facing here!
Speaking of which...
I remember how Grandpa Ohnoki
always had just the right turn
of phrase...
...like how he told us that we
all already possess the...
"strongest thing in the entire
world."
[chattering]
I can't even see what's right in
front of me with these things in
the way.
Oh, stop complaining!
You must always heed the words
of an old man whose days are
numbered.
Yeah, so you keep saying...
Hey... tell me the truth: is
this geezer really a legendary
shinobi?
[exasperated sigh]
You know, we really should start
heading back soon...
Okay! Okay!
(CONSTRUCTION WORKER) [gasp]
Watch out!
Huh?!
Particle Style...
...Atomic Dismantling Jutsu!
[gasps and worried cries]
Hey! Are you okay?!
No way! That was... Particle
Style...
[heavy breathing]
Wow, awesome! That was super
amazing, y'know!
[pained groans]
Huh? Hey, old man! Old man?!
(KOZUCHI) Grandpa! Grandpa
Ohnoki! Wake up!
C'mon, Grandpa Ohnoki, wake up!
[gasp] Kozuchi...
So you're still alive then...?
But I thought you had...
(BORUTO) Old man...?
Are you okay...?
Forgive me for before...
Sure...
[chuckle] But that Particle
Style of yours was incredible!
And I guess I should say
I'm sorry we doubted you...
Ah, don't worry about it.
By the way...
Hmmm?
Earlier... I could have
sworn you said "Kozuchi..."
Ah... Yes, Kozuchi is- Well, he
was my grandchild...
He was... a very smart boy...
He died?
He was just about the same age
as you youngsters...
Well, it doesn't matter; it's
all in the past.
Even if the Five Great Nations
have a strong union... you can't
protect everyone.
That is simply reality.
Now, then!
Huh?
You've all been very good to
me...
So I suppose that I should give
you the answer to your
question...
What's he doing now?
Who knows?
(OHNOKI) Choose. Which of these
is the hardest rock in the
world?
Seriously? It's one of these
rocks?!
Well? Do you know what the
answer is?
Hmmm...
None of them seems to be
particularly special...
Hmmm...
This one...
I'll pick this one.
Well, Mitsuki?
No, thank you. I'm good.
The two of you... are you sure
about your choices?
Mhm!
Uh... yeah?
The both of you are... [chuckle]
completely incorrect!
[embarrassed chuckle]
Ah! I knew it! I figured it
was the other one all along!
And that rock... is incorrect as
well.
Huh?!
The hardest rock in the world
is...
...the bedrock that you have
inside you...
Huh?
Whatever adversity you face, no
matter what, your bedrock never
shatters.
So... the answer is, your will,
your bedrock. The hardest rock
in the world.
Oh! So that's it. Now I get it.
All three of you... no matter
what hardship or sorrow you
encounter from here on out...
...you must never discard your
bedrock, your will.
[chuckle] Right!
So that's what the world's
hardest "rock" is, huh...?
Yeah! Of course! I mean, I knew
that all along! So...
Yeah, right. Stop lying!
I really did know! But you
didn't even have a single clue
about it at all!
Just say that again!
Hmph! Whatever!
Hey! Boruto! Hold up! Where do
you think you're going?!
Seems to me your bedrock, your
will, might be a little shaky.
This thing called "will" is...
complicated.
It's something that you aren't
able to acquire without
sacrifice.
You need to have faith in order
to get it.
Getting my own will...
But then how can I really be
certain that the will I obtain
is genuinely my own?
That is a very difficult
question to answer...
So just...
Just what?
If you find that you keep on
hitting a wall... but you also
keep on clinging to it...
Then perhaps that's a sign...
that it's indeed your true will.
[grunt]
I gotta play this like I figured
out the answer by myself...
so don't say anything to my
dad... okay?
Say anything? Why, I posed that
same question to Naruto myself.
[chuckle] No kidding, really?
Man, my Dad! He was acting like
he came up with the question
himself.
I had a whole lot of fun
sightseeing, thanks to the three
of you.
If you ever find yourselves in
the Land of Earth, I hope
you'll come and pay me a visit.
Of course, it goes without
saying that I mean only if I'm
still alive at the time.
[chuckle] Okay...
Well! We'd better escort you to
the Hokage's Office...
Before that... I want to eat
another stick of those
dumplings.
After all, I am...
...an old man whose days are
numbered, is that it?
[chuckling]
I guess that what my dad asked
me was only a silly trick
question.
We wasted our time thinking so
hard about it. Am I right,
Mitsuki?
You think?
Huh?
I thought it was quite a good
answer.
[gasp]
[gasp] Hm?
[exhale]
The Five Kage Summit's over now.
You think that we'll ever be
relieved?
I sure hope so!
[gasps]
[grunts]
[gasp]
(SARADA) So this is where
Mitsuki lives, huh? Did you know
Boruto?
(BORUTO) I heard he lived
alone, but...
(SARADA) We never heard him
talk very much about his parents
or about what his life was...
like in his home village, did
we?
(BORUTO) Yeah... Even though we
were together all the time...
Next time on Boruto Naruto Next
Generations: Mitsuki's Will"
(SARADA) We really didn't know
all that much about Mitsuki, did
we?